Let's get started
by adding the Maven Dependency for spring-boot-starter-test.
I'll open up my pom.xml file.
And I'll move down here and I'll add a new dependency.
And I'll actually just copy the previous dependency
and paste it, and then simply update the artifactId
to spring-boot-starter-test.
Set the scope to test,
because we only want to use this given dependency
when we're testing the application.
And remember, this starter includes a transitive dependency
on JUnit 5, so we get it for free.
Just do a quick update here.
And now let's go ahead and explore the dependencies here
and verify that JUnit 5 support.
So I'll open up the Maven panel
and I'll expand the Dependencies section here.
And for this spring-boot-starter-test,
I'll zoom in here for a bit,
and you can see that there's a reference here
for org.junit.jupiter.
So remember, JUnit Jupiter is for JUnit 5.
So again, we're confirming here
that we do have a transitive dependency in JUnit 5,
and we get this for free.
It's included as part of the spring-boot-starter-test.
And as I showed you in the slides,
we can also verify this information from the command lines.
You can open up a terminal window or a command prompt
and just type in mvn dependency:tree.
This will give you a list of all the dependencies
for your project.
And it'll download some supporting items,
it'll print out a lot of information for you,
but if you kind of scroll through the results for a bit
and you'll see this section here for org.junit.jupiter.
So that's the JUnit 5 support.
So again, confirming that we have this available for free
with this spring-boot-starter-test.
Awesome. I like it, I like it.
All right, so all of our config stuff is set up.
Let's go ahead and start writing some code.
So the first thing I like to do is go ahead
and create the test directory for this Maven project.
So I'll select src and create new directory.
I'll choose test/java.
And then underneath test/java we'll create a new package.
I'll call it com.luv2code.test.
And now in this package I'll create a new class.
ApplicationExampleTest.
I'll annotate this class with SpringBootTest.
And just to help us out here,
I'll add a very basic test right now
that really doesn't do anything,
but I'll just annotate it as a test
just to give us some basic infrastructure.
Now let's go ahead and run this test.
And it's running and...
Ooh, test failed, ignored.
Huh, interesting.
Okay, so looking at the results here,
unable to find SpringBootConfiguration.
Okay.
You need to use ContextConfiguration
or SpringBootTest classes.
Huh, okay.
Okay, I think I know what the issue is.
Remember, in the slides,
we mentioned the idea of the package names.
And in this scenario here we have different package names.
So that's the root cause right now, different package names.
If we use the same package names
everything will work with zero configuration,
but here I use different package names
so that's why we're having the problem.
Let's go ahead to use one solution
and we simply just rename the test package
to match the same as the main package.
So I'll call it com.luv2code.component.
Again, making everything the same
and making everything simple and easy for us.
All right, so notice here
we have the same package names under test,
same package names under main.
Okay, awesome.
Now let's run our test again.
And success. Excellent, great.
So everything worked, it found the test,
it processed the test and so forth.
It's a basic test, but at least that part worked.
Okay, cool.
Now what if I really wanted to use
a different package name just for fun?
Like, hey, I don't want to use the exact same name,
I want to change it to something else.
Well, we can rename it back to what we had it before.
So I'll choose Refactor, Rename.
The important thing here,
be sure to choose In Current Source Root.
So we're only refactoring the test package name.
We're not refactoring everything else.
So instead of component, I'll call it test.
All right, so now notice here
we have different package names.
So under test/java, we have com.luv2code.test.
Under main, com.luv2code.component, all right?
And this is kind of what we...
We're kind of going full circle here.
This is where we were at before.
If we try to run it,
we'd fail and ignore it and all that stuff.
And we saw this stuff before.
But now one thing that's nice here
is that in this error message they'll even give you a hint.
They'll say,
use ContextConfiguration or SpringBootTest classes.
Ah, that's it, classes. We saw that in the slides.
So here I can give classes.
And now I simply specify the name
of my main Spring Boot application class,
which is MvcTestingExampleApplication.class.
So now it'll know how to find the main class
that we have here.
Now if I give it a run.
Success.
So now our SpringBootTest runs properly
even when we have different package names,
because here we gave the explicit configuration.
I showed you two different ways of doing it.
I'm going to go ahead and keep it
with the existing code that I have here for now,
and we'll continue on with the videos.
But you have an option,
you can feel free to rename it back
such that the package names match exactly.
Alrighty, so good work so far. Good job.